[Music]
gone are the days when being able to
navigate a computer set you apart from
the crowd
even though pretty much everybody is
tech savvy these days the myths
surrounding computers have stuck around
so are you guilty of still believing
things like what viruses and spyware are
slowing your computer down whenever my
computer started getting slow I used to
think it's the handiwork of either some
deadly computer crashing virus or a
crazy hacker who's installed a spyware
and wants to clean out my bank account
and so I'd update my old antivirus or
maybe even install a new one when that
didn't work I'd get my computer
formatted basically I was jumping
through hoops thinking all these hackers
around the world were after my computer
because I'm just so special like that
right and I was bound and determined to
outsmart them yet my computer was still
super slow with every attempt well I
finally figured it all out my PC wasn't
infected with some virus the hard drive
was simply overloaded and I had some
outdated software bringing everything
down to a snail's pace so next time your
computer starts acting up see a local
computer repair tech to get a system
tune-up first that's what I do now and
it works every time
[Music]
two automatic updates slow down your
computer speaking of outdated programs
I'll admit that this can sometimes be
the case when it comes to a slow
computer but such cases are so rare that
they should be considered an exception
not the rule
most of the time automatic updates do a
whole lot of good things like closing
down loopholes creating barriers against
lapses that might otherwise get
exploited in the future and fine-tuning
the software to use fewer resources and
run faster so if you've been postponing
those pop-ups to update your system now
is the time to press the hola button
however keep in mind that you should
only update software that you've
knowingly installed not those that might
have snuck their way through it's best
to say goodbye to those ones and if you
are unsure whether you must uninstall a
program you have your friendly
neighborhood tech guy to ask for help or
a tech savvy programmer friend they come
in really handy
[Music]
three leaving your computer on overnight
is bad I've heard this argument so many
times that I almost started believing it
myself plus it really did feel like my
computer was working smoother in the
morning than it had been the night
before I shut it off
but after talking to a few of my friends
I found out that this assumption was
simply a figment of the imagination
on the contrary putting your computer on
sleep mode while you go into sleep mode
yourself is a better and faster way to
resume working when you wake up in the
morning but keep in mind that just like
any other machine computers also have an
operating lifespan so by keeping it
running longer you might be reducing its
time here on earth therefore if there's
no need for the computer to state
running you should ideally turn it off
also if you plan to travel with your
laptop it's best to switch it off
movement and jerks while the laptop is
on can damage internal components and
data for Macs don't need an anti-virus a
lot of people think that Macs and Linux
don't have those problems with viruses
that we hear about so often with windows
while this may have been true at Mac's
early days we're living in a totally
different world today in 2015 a senior
analyst working with the antivirus
company BitDefender said that the Mac OS
X software had more high risk
vulnerabilities than all versions of
Windows combined today however we have
an updated Mac OS but the threat still
looms high just last year in January a
malware called mamie infected thousands
of Mac computers allowing the virus
creators to see your computer's internet
traffic this means they got a peek of
the web browsing you were doing on your
computer pretty scary right
that's why investing in a good antivirus
is a smart thing to do no matter what OS
you use
[Music]
five you have to defragment your discs
regularly maybe this was true back in
the old days but Windows OS has evolved
since then and made defragmenting
obsolete the Windows versions that we
use today like Windows 7 or higher don't
need to be manually defragmented Windows
has automated the process for us
thanks Microsoft but as always there is
an exception if you are a heavy gamer or
someone who uses memory training apps
then spending a few bucks on a fast
defragmentation utility would certainly
be a smart investment
[Music]
six you need to safely remove a flash
drive now there are two kinds of people
in this world those who safely remove a
USB and the ones who yank it out without
a care in the world which team are you
on let me know down in the comments
anyway if you're like me and super
nervous about messing up your flash
drive and losing all your precious files
I guess we can now all rest assured
Microsoft recently confirmed that you no
longer need to use the safely remove
hardware and eject media button Windows
10 default policy now lets you remove a
flash drive without clicking any
additional icons and worrying about data
loss of course don't yank it out as it's
still saving or downloading something
then you might be in trouble but other
than that feel free to skip the button
[Music]
seven viruses can't get past anti
viruses yep don't hang on that anti part
so strongly because viruses can in fact
get past anti viruses well great there
goes my sense of security so how on
earth can I keep my computer safe now
after all in today's paperless world we
all have our personal information
banking details and all kinds of other
important and private documents saved on
our computers the cold hard truth is
that the risk of a computer getting
infected is a reality we must learn to
live with no matter what we do our
computer will have vulnerabilities that
a determined hacker or an evolving virus
can exploit but it's not all gloom and
doom folks you can still discourage
viral infestation by being careful about
which sites you visits not clicking
spammy or strange-looking links or
attachments and using a good quality
antivirus and remember to always update
your OS and antivirus companies
regularly release patches and fix loner
abilities as they come to know about
them a regularly updated computer is a
safer computer but not an immune one
viruses are a real threat so be ready
with a plan B in case one finds its way
into your PC
eight there's no way to recover data
that's been deleted from the hard drive
have you ever watched the show mr. robot
in one episode you can see people
destroying their hard drives by putting
them in a hot furnace but why such a
dire step they could have easily deleted
all the information on the disk right
and quite even if you delete something
and clean out that recycle bin it
doesn't wipe the memory of the
information the OS just plays tricks on
you and makes you believe that the data
has been erased
in reality it's still their data
recovery software can bring that deleted
information back so what's the way out
the answer lies in some data shredding
software that you can easily purchase or
maybe even download for free therefore
if you don't want to be caught red-faced
by someone who's a little tech savvy
you'd better use it what are some other
common computer myths that people still
believe let me know down in the comments
if I missed anything and don't forget to
give this video a like share with your
friends and click that subscribe button
to stay on the bright side of life